## 2012

### December 21st 

Brent Yorgey, PhD student at the University of Pennsylvania, visits the FP group and talks about his diagrams package.

### March 5th 

Neil Sculthorpe joins the FP group. He will work as a PostDoc on
the HERMIT project. Welcome aboard Neil!

## 2011

### November 7th

We (finally!) release Kansas Lava, and Kansas Lava Cores. There are
available on [hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org). Our webpage for
Kansas Lava is
[http://ittc.ku.eduTools/KansasLava](http://ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/Tools/KansasLava).

### September 8th

We are looking to [hire a PostDoc](/Openings/PostDoc), to work
on the [HERMIT](/Tools/HERMIT) project. Please apply!

### July 28th

The Functional Programming Group at KU have be awarded an NSF grant to
improving the applicability of Haskell-hosted semi-formal models to high
assurance development. Specifically, this involves building a refinement
toolkit inside GHC that uses a general form of the worker/wrapper
transformation.

### July 19th

Andy Gill presented gave an invited talk "Declarative FPGA Circuit
Synthesis using Kansas Lava", at ERSA'11, Las Vegas, NV.

### June 14th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at Chalmers University, Sweden.

### June 10th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at the University of Kent, England.

### June 7th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at the University of Oxford, England.

### May 24th

Andy Gill presented "Deriving an Efficient FPGA Implementation of a Low
Density Parity Check Forward Error Corrector" to WG2.1 in Reykjavik,
Iceland.

### May 2nd

Andy Gill presented "[Using Functional Programming to Generate an LDPC
Forward Error Corrector](/node/106)" at the 19th Annual IEEE
International Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines.

### April 22nd

Tristan Bull successfully defended his MS.

### April 21st

Kevin Matlage successfully defended his MS.

### March 9th

Andrew Farmer was selected to receive an NSF GK-12 fellowship for the
2011-2012 academic year. The fellowship, which includes a \$30,000
stipend, supports partnerships between graduate students and middle
school teachers to improve Fellows' teaching and communication skills,
advance STEM education in middle schools, and provide role models for
younger students.
