[About Functional Programming at KU](/csdl/fpg/About "About Functional Programming at KU")
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Functional Programming Group, led by Andy Gill, apply and extend
functional programming technologies to the diverse areas of building
computer systems, high-performance computing, information assurance and
telemetry. We use functional programming to bring clarity to
descriptions of what we want to compute, and computer language
technologies to provide efficiency and assurance. Typically, we
collaborate with other research groups, deploying our technology and
bringing our research and development expertise to work on our
collaborators' open issues, as well as their assurance and performance
needs.

-   [Read
    more](/csdl/fpg/About "Read the rest of About Functional Programming at KU.")

[Research](/csdl/fpg/Research "Research")
-----------------------------------------

We use functional programming to solve problems in ways that are
amicable to acceleration (GPUs, Multi-cores, FPGAs), and supports
assurance arguments (using semi-formal methods like equational
reasoning). As a group we make aggressive use of functional languages,
extending the technology where needed, and ultimately strive to close
gaps between high level specifications and highly efficient
implementations. We then deploy our new technologies into diverse
application areas, including telemetry, high performance computing and
real-time systems.

Our operating assumption is that a well written functional program can
perform effectively as a concise executable specification of a solution
to a problem. However, the scope and influence of our ideas is intended
to be broader than simply their use inside our functional language
community.

-   [Read more](/csdl/fpg/Research "Read the rest of Research.")

[Tools and Libraries](/csdl/fpg/Tools "Tools and Libraries")
------------------------------------------------------------

We use tools, typically written in Haskell, to explore and validate our
ideas. The main research challenge we are addressing is improving the
high assurance narrative for functional languages. We release our tools
open source, under a BSD license, use git for version control, and
github for external contributions.

-   [Read more](/csdl/fpg/Tools "Read the rest of Tools and Libraries.")

Recently at KU
--------------

### February 21st

Neil Sculthorpe will be joining our group on March 5th. Welcome aboard
Neil!

### November 7th

We (finally!) release Kansas Lava, and Kansas Lava Cores. There are
available on [hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org). Our webpage for
Kansas Lava is
[http://ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/Tools/KansasLava](http://ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/Tools/KansasLava).

### September 8th

We are looking to [hire a PostDoc](/csdl/fpg/Openings/PostDoc), to work
on the [HERMIT](/csdl/fpg/Tools/HERMIT) project. Please apply!

### July 28th

The Functional Programming Group at KU have be awarded an NSF grant to
improving the applicability of Haskell-hosted semi-formal models to high
assurance development. Specifically, this involves building a refinement
toolkit inside GHC that uses a general form of the worker/wrapper
transformation.

### July 19th

Andy Gill presented gave an invited talk "Declarative FPGA Circuit
Synthesis using Kansas Lava", at ERSA'11, Las Vegas, NV.

### June 14th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at Chalmers University, Sweden.

### June 10th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at the University of Kent, England.

### June 7th

Andy Gill presented "Functional Programming, Hardware Generation and
Functor Chains" at the University of Oxford, England.

### May 24th

Andy Gill presented "Deriving an Efficient FPGA Implementation of a Low
Density Parity Check Forward Error Corrector" to WG2.1 in Reykjavik,
Iceland.

### May 2nd

Andy Gill presented "[Using Functional Programming to Generate an LDPC
Forward Error Corrector](node/106)" at the 19th Annual IEEE
International Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines.

### April 22nd

Tristan Bull successfully defended his MS.

### April 21st

Kevin Matlage successfully defended his MS.

### March 9th

Andrew Farmer was selected to receive an NSF GK-12 fellowship for the
2011-2012 academic year. The fellowship, which includes a \$30,000
stipend, supports partnerships between graduate students and middle
school teachers to improve Fellows' teaching and communication skills,
advance STEM education in middle schools, and provide role models for
younger students.

[Older Announcements](/csdl/fpg/older-announcements "Older Announcements")
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
