Andy Gill has been an active researcher in functional programming for 20
years. Before joining KU and forming the FPG, Andy worked on optimizing
functional languages at Edinburgh then Glasgow, running Haskell on
virtual machines at OGI, and high assurance software at Galois.

### Edinburgh (1990-91)

While at Edinburgh as an undergraduate researcher under the supervision
of Russ Green, Andy built a Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler for the
interpreted Edinburgh ML, and a hotspot-like profiler to selectively
detect candidate functions for recompilation. He was employed as a
departmental intern during summers 1990 and 1991, working on further
development of the Edinburgh ML compiler.

### Glasgow (1991-96)

While studying for his PhD under the supervision of [Simon Peyton
Jones](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/simonpj/), Andy
developed the popular foldr/build fusion optimization, still used to
this day inside the [Glasgow Haskell
compiler](http://www.haskell.org/ghc).

Andy also did postdoctoral studies at Glasgow, under [John
O'Donnell](http://www.dcs.gla.ac.uk/~jtod), working on interactive
rewrite engines.

### Industry (1996-1999)

Andy spend three years as a professional compiler engineer, working
first for HP on and optimizer for the itanium, worked at Metrowerks on a
Java JIT for the PowerPC, and for a small startup call Semantic Designs,
maintaining a parallel compiler for a scheme-like language.

### Oregon Graduate Institute (1999-2000)

At OGI, Andy helped Microsoft with their .NET initiative, and developed
debugging technologies for Haskell.

### Galois (2000-2008)

Partnering with colleagues from OGI, Andy co-founded Galois, a
consulting company specializing in high assurance software. Galois grew
from a team of four in 2000 to a team of over 35 employees and revenue
of \$7.5M in 2008. At Galois, he made significant technical
contributions to over a dozen contracts and acted as project lead on
five of these contracts, including Galois' flagship product, the Trusted
Services Engine. As a technologist he practiced applied functional
programming by creating and deploying tools and methodologies that
allowed Galois' employees to develop high assurance software. [Haskell
Program Coverage](http://www.ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/Tools/Hpc), now open
sourced, is one such project.

### The University of Kansas (2008-)

While at KU, Andy has been focusing on Domain Specific Languages in
Haskell.
